# Exercise 02 - Compute

|                         |                    |
| -----------------------:| ------------------ |
|   Turn-in directory:    |  ex02              |
|   Files to turn in:     |  os_name.txt       |
|   Forbidden function:   |  None              |
|   Remarks:              |  n/a               |

Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) is a web service that provides resizable compute capacity in the cloud. Amazon EC2 reduces the time required to obtain and boot new server instances to minutes, allowing us to quickly scale capacity (up or down) depending on our needs.

Amazon EC2 allows you to acquire compute through the launching of virtual servers called instances. When you launch an instance, you can make use of the compute as you wish, just as you would with an on-premises server (local servers). Because you are paying for the computing power of the instance, you are charged per hour while the instance is running. When you stop the instance, you are no longer charged.

Two concepts are key to launching instances on AWS:
- **instance type** : the amount of virtual hardware dedicated to the instance.
- **AMI (Amazon Machine Image)** : the software loaded on the instance (Linux, MacOS, Debian, ...).

The instance type defines the virtual hardware supporting an Amazon EC2 instance. There are dozens of instance types available, varying in the following dimensions:

- Virtual CPUs (vCPUs)
- Memory
- Storage (size and type)
- Network performance

Instance types are grouped into families based on the ratio of these values to each other. Today we are going to use t2.micro instances (they are included in the free usage)!

One of the impressive features of EC2 is autoscaling. If you have a website, with 100 users you can have your website running on a little instance. If the next day, you have 10000 users then your server can scale up by recruiting new ec2 instances to handle this new load!

## Exercise

In this exercise, you will learn how to create and connect to an ec2-instance. If you are on another cloud provider aim for linux based instances with a very little size (if it can be free it is better).

Follow these steps for the exercise:
- launch an ec2 instance with the AMI : `Amazon Linux 2 AMI`.
- choose `t2.micro` as instance type.
- create a key pair.
- connect in ssh to your instance using your key pair.
- get and save the os name of your instance in the `os_name.txt` file.
- terminate your instance.

Within minutes we have created a server and we can work on it!