# Exercise 01 - S3 buckets.

|                         |                    |
| -----------------------:| ------------------ |
|   Turn-in directory:    |  ex01              |
|   Files to turn in:     |  aws_cp.sh         |
|   Forbidden function:   |  None              |
|   Remarks:              |  n/a               |


## AWS-CLI

We are going to use AWS command line interface. The first thing we need to do is install it. 

```bash
curl "https://awscli.amazonaws.com/AWSCLIV2.pkg" -o "AWSCLIV2.pkg"
sudo installer -pkg AWSCLIV2.pkg -target /
```

You should be able to run `aws --version` now.

We can setup aws account for the cli with the command `aws configure`. You will need to enter :

- access key : in your `credentials.csv` file
- secret access key : in your `credentials.csv` file
- region : `eu-west-1` (ireland)
- default output format : `None`

The aws-cli is now ready!

## S3 bucket creation

The best way to store large files on AWS is to create a S3 bucket. With your free usage you can store up to 5 Gb of data. Dropbox uses s3 buckets for its storage system, that's why you have 5 Gb for your free account on dropbox. It is designed to garantee a really high level of durability for files stored. Storage capacity automatically scales when you add more data. S3 buckets are global, their name is unique in the entire world and uses a object storage system (not based on a block system).

In this exercise you will learn to create an S3 bucket and use aws-cli.

- Connect to the console of your administrator user
- Create an S3 bucket starting with the prefix `day03-` and finished with whatever numbers you want.
- Using aws-cli copy `appstore_games.csv` file to the bucket. You can check the file was correctly copied using the AWS console.

Your aws-cli command must be stored in the `aws_cp.sh`.
