# Exercise 06 - IAM role

|                         |                    |
| -----------------------:| ------------------ |
|   Turn-in directory:    |  ex06              |
|   Files to turn in:     |  00_variables.tf, 01_networking.tf, 07_iam.tf, 10_terraform.auto.tfvars |
|   Forbidden function:   |  None              |
|   Remarks:              |  n/a               |

Terraform is a tool to deploy infrastructure as code. It can be used for multiple cloud providers (AWS, Azure, GCP, ...). We are going to use it to deploy our new API!

As you already know, we are using our AWS free tier. However, if you let your server run for weeks you will have to pay. We want to avoid this possibility. That's why we are going to use a tool to automatically deploy and destroy our infrastructure, Terraform.

All potentially critical data **MUST NOT** be deployed using infrastructure as code like terraform. If they are, they may be destroyed accidentally and you never want that to happen!

## Terraform install

First, download the terraform software for macOS.

```
brew install terraform
```

You can now run the `terraform --version`. Terraform is ready!

Terraform is composed of three kinds of files:
- `.tfvars` : terraform variables.
- `.tf` : terraform infrastructure description.
- `.tfstate` : describe all the parameters of the stack you applied (is updated after an apply)

You can run `terraform destroy` to delete your stack.

No further talking, let's deep dive into Terraform! 

## Exercise

For this first exercise, you will have to use the default VPC (Virtual Private Cloud). A VPC emulates a network within AWS infrastructure. This default VPC ease the use of AWS services like EC2 (you do not need to know anything in network setup). You will have to work in the Ireland region (this region can be changed depending on the cloud provider and your location).

Variables must be specified in variable files! All the resources that can be tagged must use the `project_name` variable with the following structure:
- `Name`: `<project_name>-<resource_name>`
- `Project_name`: `<project_name>`

The main objective is to create an IAM role for an EC2 instance allowing it to use all actions on s3 buckets (list, copy, ...). In order to create a role in terraform you will have to create:
- a role called `module02_s3FullAccessRole` 
- a profile called `module02_s3FullAccessProfile`
- a policy called `module02_s3FullAccessPolicy`

To test your role you can create an EC2 instance and link your newly created role to it, if the AWS cli works then the exercise is done. You must be able to destroy your stack entirely.