# Exercise 01 - The CRUDité.

|                         |                    |
| -----------------------:| ------------------ |
|   Turn-in directory :    |  ex01              |
|   Files to turn in :    |  create-doc.sh; ex01-queries.txt |
|   Forbidden function :  |  None              |
|   Remarks :             |  n/a               |

Now we are going to see how to perform basic CRUD operation on Elasticsearch.

## Create

I'm gonna make it easy for you: Here is a curl request that creates a document with id=1 into an index named "twitter" and containing 3 fields:

```
curl -X PUT "http://localhost:9200/twitter/_doc/1?pretty" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
{
    "user" : "popol",
    "post_date" : "02 12 2015",
    "message" : "trying out elasticsearch"
}
'
```

So, what do we have here?  

HTTP PUT method (remember, Elasticsearch use a REST API) followed by: 

`ip_of_the_cluster:9200/index_name/_doc/id_of_the_document`, then a header specifying the content-type as a json, and finally the json.  
Every document in Elasticsearch is a json, every request to Elasticsearch is sent as a json within an HTTP request.  

Try it out, you should get an answer from the server confirming the creation of the document.  

Let's see another way to create a document: Modify the above request to create a document in the twitter index but this time without specifying the id of the document. The document shall have the following field:

```
{
    "user" : "popol",
    "post_date" : "20 01 2019",
    "message" : "still trying out Elasticsearch"
}
```

**Hint**: try POST instead of PUT

Run the following command and check you have two hits.

```
curl -XGET "http://localhost:9200/twitter/_search"\?pretty
```

Look at the `_id` of each document and try to understand why those value.

Save your curl request to a file named `create-doc.sh`. The file shall be executable for the correction and it shall create the two documents above.

Ok nice, you have just created your two first documents and your first index !!  
However, using curl is not very convenient right... Wouldn't it be awesome to have a nice dev tool to write out those requests... Kibana !!   
Kibana is the visualization tool of the Elastic Stack. What's the Elastic Stack? -> [ELK stack](https://www.elastic.co/what-is/elk-stack).  

### Kibana Install

Let's install Kibana!

As you did for Elasticsearch, on the same link
- download Kibana v7.5.2  
- Unzip the file with tar and run it.  
- Wait until Kibana is started. 

You should see something like :  
`[16:09:00.957] [info][server][Kibana][http] http server running at http://localhost:5601`  

- Open your browser and go to `http://localhost:5601`  
- Click on the dev tool icon on the navigation pane (3rd before last)  
Here you can write your query to the cluster in a much nicer environment than curl. You should have a pre-made match_all query. Run it, in the result among other stuff, you should see the documents you have created.  

Try to create the following two documents in Kibana, still in the twitter index:

```
{
    "user" : "mimich",
    "post_date" : "31 12 2015",
    "message" : "Trying out Kibana"
}
```

and:

```
{
    "user" : "jean mimich",
    "post_date" : "01 01 2016",
    "message" : "Trying something else"
}
```

Got it? Great! From now on, all queries shall be done in Kibana. Save every query you run in Kibana in the ex01-queries.txt file. You will be evaluated on this file.

## Read

Now that we got the (very) basis of how to query Elasticsearch, I'm gonna let you search the answer on our own.

- Write a search query that returns all the documents contained in the 'twitter' index. 
You should get 4 hits
- Write a search query that returns all the tweets from 'popol'.
You should get 2 hits
- Write a search query that returns all the tweets containing 'elasticsearch' in their message.
You should get 2 hits  
- A little more complicated: write a search query that returns all the tweets from 'mimich' (and only this user!).  

You should get 1 hit.

Save all the queries in `ex01-queries.txt`.

### Hints

- look for the keyword field ;)
- [strings are dead long live strings](https://www.elastic.co/fr/blog/strings-are-dead-long-live-strings)

For help, please refer to the doc (or to your neighbors, or google) [query dsl](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/query-dsl.html)

## Update

Update the document with id 1 as follow and change the value of the field "message" from "trying out elasticsearch" to "updating the document".  
If you did this correctly when you update the document you should see "\_version": 2 in the answer from the cluster

Save the query in `ex01-queries.txt`.

## Delete

- Run the following command:

```
POST _bulk
{"index": {"_index": "test_delete", "_id":1}}
{"name": "clark kent", "aka": "superman"}
{"index": {"_index": "test_delete"}}
{"name": "louis XV", "aka": "le bien aimé"}
```

It is a bulk indexing algorithm, it allows to index several documents in only one request.
- Delete the document with id 1 of the test_delete index
- Delete the whole test_delete index

Save all the queries in `ex01-queries.txt`.
