# Exercise 02 - Your first Index Your first Mapping.

|                         |                    |
| -----------------------:| ------------------ |
|   Turnin directory :    |  ex02              |
|   Files to turn in :    |  ex02-rendu.txt    |
|   Forbidden function :  |  None              |
|   Remarks :             |  you have to put all the request you run in Kibana in ex02-rendu.txt |

At this point you should have 4 documents in your twitter index from the previous exercise. You are now going to learn about the mapping.  
Doing NoSQL doesn't mean you should not structure your data. When you want to optimize your cluster you must define the mapping of your index, we will see why. You have noticed that in the previous exercise, when you create a document, Elasticsearch automatically created the index for you. Well it also create a default mapping for this index.  
However the default mapping is usually not ideal.

We would like to retrieve all the tweets posted in 2016 and beyond. Try the follwing query:
```
GET twitter/_search
{
  "query": {
    "range": {
      "post_date": {
        "gte": "01 01 2016"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
Do you have the good results ? No... there is a mapping issue.

Your objective now is to create a new index called 'twitter_better_mapping' that contains the same 4 documents as the 'twitter' index but with a mapping that comply with those four requirements:  
1- The following query should only return the tweet posted in 2016 and beyond (2 hits):
```
GET twitter_better_mapping/_search
{
  "query": {
    "range": {
      "post_date": {
        "gte": "01 01 2016"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
2- The following query should return only 1 hit
```
GET twitter_better_mapping/_search
{
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "user": "mimich"
    }
  }
}
```
3- The mapping must be strict (if you try to index document with field not defined in the mapping, you get an error)  
4- The size of the twitter_better_mapping should be less than 5 kb.
  
Hint:  
- You can't modify the mapping of an existing index, so you have to define the mapping when you create the index, prior to indexing any document in the index.  
- The easiest way to write a mapping is to start from the default mapping Elasticsearch create. Index a document sample into a temporay index, retrieve the default mapping of this index and copy and modify it to create a new index. Here you already have the twitter index with a default mapping. Write a request to get this mapping and start from here.  
- You will noticed that by default ES creates two fields for every string field: my-field as "text" and my-field.keyword as "keyword" type. The "text" type takes computing power at indexing and cost storage space. The "keyword" type is light but does not offer all the search power of the "text" type. Some field might need both, some might need just one... optimize your index !  
- Once you have create the new index with a better mapping, you can index the documents manually as you did in previous exercise or you can use the reindex API (see Elastic Doc)
