# Exercise 08 - Cloud API

|                         |                    |
| -----------------------:| ------------------ |
|   Turn-in directory:    |  ex08              |
|   Files to turn in:     |  02_ec2.tf, \*.tf, \*.auto.tfvars |
|   Forbidden function:   |  None              |
|   Remarks:              |  n/a               |

As you may have noticed, building a whole infrastructure needs a lot of steps (which includes). To ease the deployment, it was split into two parts: an intermediate deployment and the final implementation. The first part consists in deploying one EC2 instance with your working API. Thus we will ensure everything we did on terraform is working well. I have a good news, by the end of this exercise you will have done the first intermediate solution!

## Exercise

To finalize our intermediate infrastructure we are going to add two components.

First, you will need a key-pair file we will call `module02.pem` and provisioned through Terraform. The key pair must use the RSA algorithm and have the appropriate permissions to be functional.

You must provision an EC2 resource which will use:
- the default vpc
- the role you created
- the security group you created
- the key pair you just created
- a public ip address
- an instance type `t2.micro` with a Linux AMI

You must create an output that will show the public ip of the instance you created.

At this point you should be able to ssh into the EC2 and use aws cli on s3 buckets. However, our API is still not working! 

First, upload the files of your API onto your s3 bucket (you don't need to upload the client). Those files should never be deleted to provision your API. This solution is not the cleanest solution but it will be sufficient for the purpose of this module.

Create a bootstrap script that will:
- install the necessary libraries
- download the files of the API from the s3 bucket
- start the API in background

The exercise will be considered valid only if the API is working after a `terraform apply`. You should be able to use your client on the output ip.