# Exercise 01 - Simple Storage Service (S3).

|                         |                    |
| -----------------------:| ------------------ |
|   Turn-in directory:    |  ex01              |
|   Files to turn in:     |  aws_presign_url.sh |
|   Forbidden function:   |  None              |
|   Remarks:              |  n/a               |


## AWS-CLI

We are going to use AWS command line interface. The first thing we need to do is install it. 

```bash
curl "https://awscli.amazonaws.com/AWSCLIV2.pkg" -o "AWSCLIV2.pkg"
sudo installer -pkg AWSCLIV2.pkg -target /
```

You should be able to run `aws --version` now.

We can setup aws account for the cli with the command `aws configure`. You will need to enter :

- access key : in your `credentials.csv` file
- secret access key : in your `credentials.csv` file
- region : `eu-west-1` (ireland)
- default output format : `None`

The aws-cli is now ready!

## S3 bucket creation

Amazon S3 provides developers and IT teams with secure, durable, and highly-scalable cloud storage. Amazon S3 is easy-to-use object storage with a simple web service interface that you can use to store and retrieve any amount of data from anywhere on the web. It is characterized by its :

- durability : it is designed to deliver 99.99% durability of objects over a given year.
- availibility : S3 buckets are saved in at least 3 availibility zones.
- scalability : bucket sizes will shrink/expand depending on the load.

A bucket is a container (web folder) for objects (files) stored in Amazon S3. Every Amazon S3 object is contained in a bucket. Buckets form the top-level namespace for Amazon S3, and bucket names are global. This means that your bucket names must be unique globally (across all AWS accounts).The reason for that is when we create a bucket, it is going to have a web address (ex : `https://s3-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/example`).

Even though the namespace for Amazon S3 buckets is global, each Amazon S3 bucket is created in a specific region that you choose. This lets you control where your data is stored.

With your free usage you can store up to 5 Gb of data!

## Exercise

In this exercise you will learn to create an S3 bucket and use aws-cli.

- Connect to the console of your administrator user
- Create an S3 bucket starting with the prefix `day02-` and finished with whatever numbers you want.
- Using aws-cli copy `appstore_games.csv` file to the bucket. You can check the file was correctly copied using the AWS console.
- Using aws-cli create a presigned URL allowing you to download the file. Your presigned url must have an expiring time of 10 minutes. 

Your aws-cli command must be stored in the `aws_presign_url.sh` script.